1-
Today, I will tell you Google Cloud Platform 
in terms of Data Scientist or Data Engineer.
2-
Instead of buying, owning and maintaining 
physical data centers and servers, you can 
access technology services such as computing
power, storage, and databases from cloud 
provider. If you are a member of a cloud 
platform, you don’t need to have special 
hardware or software program on your 
computer to write code, you have to be 
accessing internet. Cloud computer have 
already everything you need.
3- 
Hundreds of billions dollars is allocated 
to the clouds by companies and those numbers 
are only expected to increase on the 
coming years.
4- 
The most common Cloud Platforms are AWS 
(Amazon Web Services), Microsoft Azure, 
Google Cloud Platform. Software development 
and testing, big data analytics, web 
application.  What can you do with Cloud 
Computing. You can build nearly anything 
you can imagine from infrastructure sevices 
such as compute, storage and databases to 
machine learning, data analytics much more.
5-
These company have a lot of data centers 
and servers all around the world. They 
have similar services and Today, I will 
tell you Google Cloud Platform.
6-
There are three fundamental aspects of 
Google's core infrastructure and a top 
layer of products and services that we 
will interact with most often. The base 
layer that covers all of  Google's applications 
and therefore  Google Cloud's too, is security. 
On top of that, are compute, storage, and 
networking. These allow you to process, store, 
and deliver business changing insights, data 
pipelines, and machine learning models. Finally, 
while running your big data applications 
on bare metal virtual machines as possible, 
Google has developed a top layer of big data 
and ML products to abstract away a lot of the 
hard work of managing and scaling that 
infrastructure for you.
7- 
First, you get computing resources on-demand 
and self-service. All you have to do is use a 
simple interface and you get the processing 
power, storage, and network you need, with no 
need for human intervention. Second, you access 
these resources over the net from anywhere 
you want. Third, the provider of those resources 
has a big pool of them and allocates them to 
customers out of that pool. That allows the 
provider to get economies of scale by buying in 
bulk and pass the savings on to the customers. 
Customers don't have to know or care about the 
exact physical location of those resources. 
Fourth, the resources are elastic. If you need 
more resources you can get more, rapidly. 
If you need less, you can scale back. 
And last, the customers pay only for what 
they use or reserve as they go. If they stop 
using resources, they stop paying. That's it. 
That's the definition of cloud.
8-
This screen is dashboard of the GCP.
9-
The suite of big data products on Google 
Cloud Platform 
10-
Storages are explained in the table according 
to their intended use.
11-
you'll be trying to search for data based on 
a single key, use Datastore if you'd be finding 
data using SQL use Cloud SQL. if you wanted 
transactional database that is horizontally 
scalable so that you can deal with data larger 
than a few gigabytes, or if you need multiple 
databases so you want them spread globally use 
Cloud Spanner. If you'll need multiple databases, 
either because you have a lot of data or because 
your application needs to be transactional across 
different continents, use Cloud Spanner.
Use Bigtable if you need real-time high-throughput 
applications. 
For our housing recommendation use case, we want 
to store our ratings and predictions somewhere. 
This is a structured dataset of user ratings and 
houses. It's built for a transactional workload, 
writes and reads, and one database is enough for 
a small dataset and hence we pick Cloud SQL.
what's Cloud SQL? It's a Google-hosted and 
managed relational database in the Cloud. Cloud 
SQL supports two open-source databases: MySQL 
and Postgres, and other database solutions. 
12-
Every application needs to store data. 
13-
A growing data organization will need lots of 
compute power to run big data jobs. Compute 
Engine lets you create and run virtual machines 
on Google infrastructure. Your VM can run Linux 
and Windows Server images provided by Google or 
customized versions of these images, and you can 
even import images for many of your physical 
servers. When you create a VM, pick a machine 
type which determines how much memory and how 
many virtual CPUs it has. These types range 
from very small to very large indeed. I will 
show you to create a virtual machine like our 
computers.
14- 
A growing data organization will need lots of 
compute power to run big data jobs. Compute 
Engine lets you create and run virtual machines 
on Google infrastructure. Your VM can run Linux 
and Windows Server images provided by Google or 
customized versions of these images, and you can 
even import images for many of your physical 
servers. When you create a VM, pick a machine 
type which determines how much memory and how 
many virtual CPUs it has. These types range 
from very small to very large indeed. I will 
show you to create a virtual machine like our 
computers.
15- 
You can choose what regions your GCP resources 
are in. All the zones within a region have fast 
network connectivity among them.
You can choose your machine type according to 
your need. You can choose strong machine like 
4 CPU and  16 GB memory or less strong 2 CPU 
and 4 GB.
The bigger you choose, the more you pay. You 
pay only for what they use or reserve as they 
go. If you stop using resources, you stop paying. 
16-
you can want a company here with network services 
if everyone in your company works at home. 
17-
Services of big data. I will tell you little 
big data history and GCP services about it.
18-
Before 2006, big data meant big databases. 
Database design came from a time when storage 
was relatively cheap and processing was expensive. 
So it made sense to copy the data from its 
storage location to the processor to perform 
data processing, and then the result would be 
copied back to storage. Around 2006, distributed 
processing 
of big data became practical with Hadoop. 
The idea behind Hadoop is to create a cluster of 
computers and leveraged distributed processing,
HDFS. The Hadoop Distributed File System, stored 
the data on machines in the cluster, and 
MapReduce provided distributed processing of this 
data. Around 2010, BigQuery was released which 
was the first of many big data services developed 
by Google. Around 2015, Google launched Cloud 
Dataproc which provides a managed service for 
creating Hadoop and Spark clusters, and managing 
data processing workloads.
19-
We needed to make sure that we could process 
batch data and streaming data the same way. 
For example, we needed houses details in our 
scraping project. 
Cloud dataproc help us transform from batch or 
data to tables like we stored data to csv file 
in our project. Cloud ML uses these tables for 
ML engineers, once your dataset is in BigQuery, 
you can easily call it from your IPython ML 
notebooks in the cloud with just a few commands.
20-
You need data engineers to build the pipelines 
and get you clean data.
Decision makers, to decide how deep you want 
to invest in a data-driven opportunity 
while weighing the benefits for the organization.
Analysts, to explore the data for insights 
and potential relationships that could be 
useful as features in a machine learning model. 
Statisticians, to help make your data-inspired 
decisions become true data-driven decisions, 
with their added rigor.
Applied machine learning engineers, who have 
real-world experience building production 
machine learning models from the latest and 
best information and research by the researchers.
Data scientists, who have the mastery over 
analysis, statistics, and machine learning. 
Analytics managers to lead the team.
Social scientists and ethicists to ensure that 
the quantitative impact is there for your 
project and, it's the right thing to do. 
As I've written in a blog post on this subject, 
it's linked below, a single person might have 
a combination of these roles, but this depends 
on the size of your organization. Your team size 
is one of the biggest drivers in whether you 
should hire for a specific skill set, up-skill 
from within, or combine the two. 
21-
22-
BigQuery is designed to be an easy-to-use data 
warehouse. BigQuery as both a data warehouse and 
an Advanced Query Engine is foundational for 
your AI and ML workloads. It's common for data 
analysts, engineers, and data scientists to use 
BigQuery to store, transform, and then feed 
those large datasets directly into your ML 
models. 
23-
24-
Cloud Machine Learning Platform provides modern 
machine learning services with pre-trained 
models and a platform to generate your own 
tailored models. TensorFlow is an open source 
software library that's exceptionally well 
suited for machine learning applications like 
neural networks. You can run TensorFlow 
wherever you like but GCP is an ideal place 
for it because machine learning models need 
lots of on-demand compute resources and lots 
of training data.
25-





  















